---
locale: en-US
layout: single
title: Release 1.4.2 Mar 2023
toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/1.4.2) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/1.4.2) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/1.4.2) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/1.4.2) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/1.4.2)

## New Particle System
{% include video id="SLNw5XZflZ8" provider="youtube" %}
* A new particle system has been developed that can simulate effects such as snow, glitter, rain, and falling leaves.
* It offers comprehensive settings to control the appearance and physics of the particles.
* It can load custom textures for the particles and supports multiple images in one texture file.

## Cloud Fixes and Refined Settings
{% include video id="Jhr2y0sfu94" provider="youtube" %}
Cloud settings have been fixed, and now you can individually change each setting to fine-tune the cloud appearance.

## Shader Updates
* Streamlined shader structures have been implemented for better flexibility and performance.
* A procedural detail map for skin and hair has been added for a more realistic look.
{% include video id="C3boLWhL4Og" provider="youtube" %}
* The appearance of wetness and rain has been improved.
* The outfit effect has been enhanced with proper bump mapping and better compatibility.
* The freeze issue when toggling rain mode on has been fixed.

## Model Compatibility
* The issue with spiky appearances on some XPS models has been fixed.
* The missing texture issue caused by extra spaces in the texture file names has been resolved.
* Bone mapper fixes and improvements have been made.
{% include video id="jtxQo5NYk2o" provider="youtube" %}

## Camera Options
New fancam and tracking options have been added for freefly and concert mode cameras.
{% include video id="1wcjmcMOa4A" provider="youtube" %}

## UI & UX
* The folder structure for the stage menu has been restored.
* For settings with presets, an "*" has been added to indicate whether settings have been changed from the preset value.
* The Freefly camera automatically reduces move speed when you are close to an actor.

## Motion
* IK has been updated for a more natural arm bending direction.
* The hand pose in Motion Override has been corrected.
* A setting in Motion Override has been added to fine-tune the arm bending axis.