---
layout: single
title: Release 2024.10
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2024.10) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2024.10) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2024.10) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2024.10) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2024.10)

## Animation Performance Improvements

2024.10 update further improves the efficiency of the new motion system introduced several versions ago, now it is capable of animating a great number characters without obvious FPS drop. 

In the new version a 7 character group dance runs at stable 100+ fps while the previous version average at 80. 


## Support for specular & emission maps

* New option to use specular map for metallic and smoothness values, enhancing visual of materials with metallic parts

* Support for XPS emission maps that make certain part of the material glow


## Feet Correction With High Heels

* New multi-point contact solving model that prevents clipping and corrects feet pose dynamically based on collision against ground.

* Automatic toe bending on contact with ground.

* Adaptive high heels pose

* Procedural shoe model that fits perfectly with the contact points and high heel adjustments.

* New option in accessory settings to attach external model to the feet.


## Reworked First Person Camera

* Works perfectly with the new motion system

* Controlling head & hand movements in VR using headset & controller tracking

* New auto hand pose for VR hands that uses controller input for hand gesture. You can change hand pose in VR hand settings under system settings.


## Define Chorus Sections for the audio 

You can configure chorus section for the audio and use it as data source to drive auto update values. 


## Other changes

* Mirror now supports VR, you can now feel proper depth of your image in the mirror in VR.

* New VR hand model that can interact with cloth simulation & particle dynamics

* Settings for currently assigned motions for all characters are now listed together under the motion menu, for easier access.

* Default key assignment for toggling UI has been changed to right hand thumbstick click

* Fixed VR recording in creator edition

* Camera is locked in VR when UI is visible