---
layout: single
title: Release 2024.11
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2024.11) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2024.11) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2024.11) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2024.11) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2024.11)

## Simulation

Further advancing on our path on to the cloth simulation and particle dynamics, we are introducing a few more additions to our particle simulation tools. 


### Wind and Turbulence


* Global wind settings affecting cloth and particle simulation. You can configure global wind speed and direction in sky settings and it will affect all cloth and particle dynamics simulation. You can also configure wind influence for each group of cloth or particle simulation individually.

* Turbulence. With each cloth and particle dynamics group, you can set turbulence force for them. 

* Wind field. Configure a separate field that has additional wind force so you can simulate a fan, a tunnel or simply want something to fly...

* Cloth simulation and particle dynamics settings now includes new configurations such as wind influence and turbulence strength for you to fine tune the simulation. 


### Soft body simulation

Soft body physics is back and this time with much better realism thanks to the particle simulation techniques. 

#### Boobs

Boobs physics by default has soft body options turned on. 

By default this is a hybrid solution that uses the physics engine to simulate the main bone since it has more sophisticated limit and damping options. 

You can also set it to use soft body simulation only. 


#### Soft body physics

Select control bones for butts and legs (usually contains "ctl" or "adj" in their names) like before. This is now particle dynamics only and has no physics engine option any more since there is no need. 


#### Key Configurations:

Both boobs and soft body physics offers the same configuration for you to find tune your model. Here are a few important ones that you might want to know.

* Volume constraint: This maintains the overall volume of the particles and is the key for the realism of the simulation.

* Distance constraint: This is most effective when you want to adjust "softness", but don't use values that are too low.

* Visualization: This is very useful if you want to see how the particles are connected to each other.

* Depth & Layers: Defines how deep and how many layers of particles we use for the simulation. Turn on visualization to see how if affects the structure.

* Lock Edges: This is ideal for boobs since realistically you want to edges of the boobs to have less movements. If this doesn't seem to work as expected, try increasing the "z" value of the "center" position in the boobs physics settings to help it detect edges more easily.

* Particle properties: These are common settings for cloth and particle simulations. Here you can use the "Soften" option to further adjust the "softness".

We've included presets for "boobs", "butts" and "legs" as examples for you.


## Toon Shading

We've implemented proper toon shading to replace the old full screen toon effect. 

* Find the toon shading options in "Global Material" settings for each model individually.

* Globally you can turn on toon shading for all actors or stages in graphics settings. But that's just a on / off switch and you will still need to use the individual settings for each model to fine tune the effect.

* Full control of every aspect of the rendering individually! You can adjust size, brightness and softness of highlight, ambience and shadow independently.

* This works for all variants including Android, iOS and Quest. Only difference is that the HD/RT version don't support receiving shadow yet due to technical constraints. 


## Other Changes & Fixes

Addressing reports from github, discord and other channels, here are the other changes

* Auto Camera now supports more options, including angles from back, fade to black during transition and more.

* Support for materials morphs. Please note that this might conflict with the "Clothing" system (not the simulation but the one that configure which part to appear or hide), so you might get strange result if you try to use both at the same time.

* Lighting: We've updated light presets with much lower intensity but closer distances. This allow the shadows to render in much better details and more efficiently while addressing the over exposure look previously. With this a new "Maintain Distance" mode is now default for spotlights in that it will try to maintain the distance and angle automatically by moving itself so you don't need to put it too far away in order to achieve desireable light angle when the actors move all over the place during dance.

