---
layout: single
title: Release 2024.3
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---

# New Laser System
* All new shader that simulates stage laser realistically
* Highly customizable formation & position, allowing you to place laser array on the wall, ceilling or the ground
* New motion control system that allows finetuning motion parameters
* Random motion with custom random seed. This allows repeatable random sequence so you can save and share the random motion that you like by simply specifying the same seed number.
* Works with the enhanced Auto Update system to control color and glow of each beam individually

# Shadow Only Mode For Ground
This is a special rendering mode for ground that draws only the shadow so you can layer the shadow on top of the background skymap or AR passthrough to make the model & objects really look like in the environment.
* This is available in both HD and LW but they work slightly differently. 
* With the HD versino it renders shadows from all lights, and you can adjust the color and transparency of the shadow.
* With the LW version it currently only works for the sunlight, but you have additional blur effect settings to make the shadow smoother.
* You can also use this for primitive objects to fake objects in the background like pillars and walls.

# Enghanced Outfit Effect
The Outfit effect received another major update to allow more realistic look and better render quality.
* New "parallel" pattern option that draws feature lines parallel to the borders.
* New hexagon detail map with bump effects to give the final result a more realistic texture
* New anisotropy control that simulates silk like fabric look on stockings
* Works better with skin materials. It masks out areas for the skin effect and you can now use metallic effect on skin materials.

# Auto Update Enhancements
* Improved usage of audio data to achieve automatic motion that synchronize with the music.
* Check the presets in the new laser system for examples.
* You can now use auto update on model morphs.

# Procedural motion updates
* Auto Dance 3 and SM3 use the same new motion control system that has random seed configuration

# Other fixes & enhancements
* New option to "reset all morphs"
