---
layout: single
title: Release 2024.12
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2024.12) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2024.12) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2024.12) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2024.12) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2024.12)


## Soft body & simulation

Further improving soft body simulation by optimizing the model and configurations.

* Distance constraints are split into internal and surface groups. Further refining the structure.

* Automatically subdividing surface bones to further improve simulation result 

* Individual controls for center & edge locks

* Collision between soft body and cloth pieces is now possible

* Improved stability when there's sudden movements. The simulation is now truly unbreakable. No matter how you torture it, it will still come back to a stable state.


## Remote Control

The Android app has been updated with a remote control feature that allows it to connect to DanceXR running on a different device on your local network and you can then control everything remotely without accessing the UI. This can be useful when you want to change the scene or settings during recording or simply wants to enjoy it on a big screen from your couch. 

* Connect wirelessly through local network

* Custom network protocol that allows super low latency connection 

* Access to (almost) all menus and options

* Touchpad for rotation & motion control

* The Android app now has a main menu screen instead of multiple icons in your launcher 

We'll release the Android update first and then the PC builds so that when you get your hands on the 2024.12 update you can immediately try it out. 

This feature is released as a public beta, please don't hesitate to reach out to us on Discord and Github if there are any issue that you found. 


## Other Changes & Fixes

Thank you for all your bug reports and suggestions, here are the other fixes and improvements: 

* Motion smoothing is back

* New custom tone mapping profile for HD & RT, improved color accuracy and dynamic range

* Auto camera target selection is fixed (previously the center and legs targets are swapped)

* Fixed glow issue on LW builds (PC LW, Android and iOS)

* Improved translation quality of text in app

* Improve ocean mode water ripple

* Improve double side transparent material (turning off depth prepass by default)

* Improved procedural motions