---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.7
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.7) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.7) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.7) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.7) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.7)

# DanceXR 2025.7 Release Notes

## New Sky Shader
We've created new sky shader that includes moon and aurora in addition to the sun and stars that we already had. The new sky options are available in HD & RT versions. 

### Moon
Moon is controlled similarly to the sun, with eclipse angle and time of day. In addition a new moon position slider is available to control the angle of it away from the sun. There's also options for moon phase, phase angle and earthshine which is the brightness of the moon's dark side.

### Aurora
Aurora is a dynamic effect whose brightness can be controlled in the sky settings.

## Motion Curves & Filters
A new set of algorithms are employed for data processing and motion curves. This should result in smoother and more natural procedural motion.

The new method simulates spring force and damping to control changes of values and smooth out the motion. You can fine tune the curves with spring and damping parameters. Higher spring force results in faster response to changes, while higher damping results in smoother motion.

You can turn on visualization to get a better understanding of how the curves work and how the parameters affect the motion. 

This new method is used in the following places:

- Audio Processing, for generating smooth audio level curve that drives procedural motions.
- Sex Motion 3, for generating smooth procedural motions for both male and female characters.
- Sex Motion Overlay

## Other Changes
- PMX compatibility change: added thigh bones and map them to leg bones.
- Changed skin materials to respect alpha cliping by default. This will result in less artifacts related to transparent materials mistakenly recognized as skin. However keep in mind that it's best to set materials properly.
- Fixed camera vertical offset settings
