---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.10
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.10) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.10) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.10) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.10) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.10)

# DanceXR 2025.10 Release Notes

## VR User Experience Improvements
* The application no longer initiate VR on startup, but you can still configure it to do so in the settings.
* You can now switch in and out of VR mode during your session without restarting the application.
* Mouse can be used to control pointer in VR mode. Together with keyboard support it's perfect for sitting experience in front of a desk. 
* Physical VR controllers no longer required to use DanceXR in VR mode.
* New "Pointer Handle" which is a long flexible rod driven by physics that you can hold in your hand to interact with actors in VR mode. This is NSFW so not available in the Pure version. You can also load any external model that has a chain of bones to use as the pointer handle. 

## Improvements on physics and simulation
* New shear and bend constraints for skirt physics. 
* Improved stability of collision and friction solving.
* Support for complex colliders like holes.

## Render Quality Improvements for the LW & Android versions
* Improved shader for better skin effect
* Removed excessive sky reflection on skin & hair objects
* Improved handling of detail & mask textures for better visual quality
* Improved default settings for detail & mask maps

## Other fixes and improvements
* Unified XRay settings in various areas
* UI behavior enhancements for the VR mode, check the UI section under VR configurations
* Smoother camera control for the Free Fly Camera mode
* Other bug fixes

