---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.5
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.5) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.5) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.5) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.5) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.5)

# Graphics & Custom Effects


## Experimental Pathtracing
The RT version now has experimental pathtracing capabilities that you can turn on for real-time rendering and offline recording (Creator edition only).

Pathtracing is a rendering technique that simulates the way light interacts with objects in a scene to create realistic images. It traces the path of light rays as they bounce around the scene, taking into account reflections, refractions, and shadows. This results in very accurate lighting and shading effects compared to traditional rasterization methods. Allowing for complex indirect lighting and illumating the scene with glowing objects as well.

The image will be noisy but there are a few options to help generating better images.

* Accumulating multiple frames to reduce noise. You can set a max number of frames to accumulate in the settings. The more frames you accumulate, the less noise you will see but the longer it will take to render.
* Reducing max depth to reduce the number of bounces. This will reduce the complexity of the indirect lighting and reduce the noise. 
* Turning off translucent effect. Skin effects requires calculating light penetration and scattering which adds to the noise. You can turn it off in the material settings.
* Using the denoiser. The denoiser will smooth out the noise at the cost of render time and details. We have "Open Image Denoiser" and "Optix Denoiser" options. The Open Image Denoiser is slower but more accurate, while the Optix Denoiser is faster but less accurate. You can choose the one that works best for your scene.

Keep in mind that this is an experimental feature and may not work perfectly in all situations. We are looking forward to future improvements and optimizations to make this feature more stable and faster.


## Posterization Effect
We have brought back the posterization effect and made it available in LW versions too. We've also added dithering and half-toning options to the effect. You can configure the effect in a few different ways to suit your needs.

* Outline: Many people asked for this depth based outline effect and it is now available again and can be used with or without the other posterization effects.
* Black and white: This limits the color illumination to either full or none, while using the dithering for the transition. Final result is similar to the 8-bit graphics in old games.
* Posterization: By limiting the color illumination to a few levels, this creates a cartoonish effect result.
* Half-toning: This is a special effect that simulates the look of printed images by using dots of varying sizes and spacing to create the illusion of continuous tones. It can be used to create a retro or vintage look, or to add a unique texture to your images. Together with depth of field, this can create artistic effects that looks like painting.

These effects are now available in both HD and LW versions. 


# Audio Visualization
We have added a new audio visualization feature that allows you to create stunning visual effects that respond to the music you are playing. 

This replaces the "Beats Ring" and can be used as a decal which projects the effect on the floor or as a surface effect for stage floor or walls. 

* Use the "Audio Visualizer" option under Scene -> Options for the decal version.
* Use the "Audio Visualizer" preset in Ground settings for the stage wall version.

You can adjust the settings to customize your visualizer to your liking. 
* Change the color and size of the effect.
* Change the foreground and background color and images.
* Change vibration intensity.
Just to name a few.

