---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.3
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.3) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.3) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.3) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.3) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.3)

# Keyframe Animation

2025.3 introduces a major improvements in animation support. You can now set keyframes for almost every setting values, including dropdowns and bone selections. 

**Enabling Keyframes Feature**

Keyframe feature can be turned on and off for each configuration individually. 

To turn on keyframes for a configuration, hover over to the right side of the configurable value, an edit button will appear and you can click on it then toggle the the "Keyframes" checkbox. 

**Add Keyframe**

To add a keyframe, use the timeline at the bottom of the screen to move to your desired time, and then click on "Add keyframe".

**Selecting Keyframe**

To select a keyframe, select from the keyframe menu or simply move the timeline, and the related keyframe will be automatically selected.

**Deleting Keyframes**

Click on the delete button on the right side of the keyframe to delete it. You cannot change the keyframe time after it is created so if you want to move the keyframe, you'll need to delete and create a new one.


**Changing Keyframe Value**

When a keyframe is selected, use the value slider to change the configuration value and the new value will be used as the value for the selected keyframe.

**Animation**

When the audio / motion is playing, the configuration value will be automatically interpolated between previous and next keyframe.

**Supported Value Types**

Numeric values
* Float point number
* Integer number (Keep in mind that the interpolated value will be rounded to the nearest integer)

Selection values, these values do not have interpolation, value will only be updated when the timeline reaches a keyframe.
* Dropdown selection 
* Switch selection (horizontal selection without a dropdown menu)
* Bone selection

**Auto Update Compatibility**

The old auto update system is still available however you cannot use Auto Update and Keyframe system at the same time for a value.



# Motion Accuracy

We've also improved the mapping of the motion for better hand motion accuracy. The new system maps the hand motion to non-MMD skeletons much more accurately. And we've also introduced more fine control for hand bones. You can now adjust finger orientation individually to fit the motion.

We've also fixed issues with bone morphs, allowing bone morph motions to play accurately.



# Simulation Improvements

Further improving stability and interaction with air drag and damping effects.  


# Timeline Control

You can now long press on the timeline for longer than half a second to enter a fine adjustment mode of the play time, while you hold the button you can move the cursor left or right to control the speed of the fine adjustment. This helps selecting the exact time you need when editing keyframes.

# Fan Dance Example

https://youtu.be/aTp2n4acJIw

We published a video earlier this month that uses some of the above mentioned features and fixes. Here's a breakdown of how they are being used in the video.

* The open and close of the fan is controlled by a bone morph animation in the VMD. The bone morph fix allowed the fan to stay in the animated position. In previous versions the fan will reset its pose in every frame.
* During the video the fan switches hands 2 times. This is done using the keyframe animation on the bone selection of the "Attach To Actor" settings for the fan. When it switches hands, we simply set a keyframe and select a different hand. To replicate this, you just need to move to the time when the switching needs to happen, create a new keyframe for the bone selection and choose a different bone there.
