---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.2
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.2) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.2) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.2) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.2) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.2)

## Simulation
The "Cloth Simulation" configuration has now been renamed to "Simulation" and some of the sub settings relocated to better reflect the new functionalities that's been added

### Experimental Fluid Simulation
Extending the cloth simulation system to support fluid behavior with the following new attributes. 
* Cohesion force that keeps nearby particles together
* Viscosity to restrict relative movements
* Stickiness to keep particles stick to surfaces

You can adjust spawn settings for different scenarios like shower, fountain, garden hose etc. 

For rendering, it currently can render fluid particles as points or spheres, with proper fluid shader coming soon in future releases. 

### Fix issues with tearing and scaling
* Cloth simulation and particle dynamics can now work well with actor scaling. 
* Tearing is fixed and settings moved to individual cloth settings instead of global.
* Reorganized particle properties for more flexibility.

## New Attach To Actor Mode
Actor models can now be attached to any bone of a different actor, with basic scaling, rotation and offset settings for adjustments. And they can still be assigned motion at the same time. 

In previous versions you can set a model to be accessory type and allow it to be loaded as accessory for certain bones of an actor. THe new system allows much more flexibility and can work with the animation system. 

To use it, load 2 more more actor models, go to "Attach To Actor" settings and choose an actor and a bone. Then use the scale, rotation and position settings to fine-tune. Please note the order of actors matters. You should choose the actors that are in front of you to attach, otherwise the position will not be correct. You can change actor order by using the "Move Up" or "Move Down" options in the actor tools menu.

## Other Improvements & Fixes
* Scaling issue fixed