---
layout: single
title: Release 2025.4
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2025.4) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2025.4) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2025.4) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2025.4) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2025.4)


# Lighting Effects Improvements (HD and RT)

Finetuned effects and graphics settings to improve global illumination especially for indoor scenes. This works best in the RT build but also works in HD version using the screen space effects.

* Improved global illumination effect
* Added control for sky reflection in reflection settings
* Control for raytracing fallback to sky
* For indoor scenes it is better to turn off sky reflection and fallback 
* New presets GI Indoor and GI Outdoor for your reference.


# Material Setting Changes

Material settings are made easier for transparency and shadow controls in the global settings, and the other settings are more consistent across different levels. 

* Change transparency modes for all materials in global settings in a simple check list, with additional options to turn on / off for all and reset to default. 
* Change cast shadow modes for all materials in the same way. 
* Consistent settings at category, group and individual material levels.
* Improve skin effects
* Added ambient occulusion settings for materials to control influence of sky lighting on those materials


# Improved morph support especially for stage models

* Material morphs are now back in the morph menu
* Vertex and bone morph now works for stage models too
* Fixing issues with morphs for all PMX models


# Improved "Attach To Actor"

Attach to actor feature allows attaching one model to a bone of another model. It now has additional abilities to 

* Attaching from a selected bone of the attachment model. 
* Issues with motions that animate non-standard bones are fixed.


# Motion Updates

* Improved procedural Auto Dance & Sex motions
* Improved facial control with sex motions
* Fixed issue with actor rotation when using procedural motions