---
layout: release
title: Release 2026.3
locale: en-US
nav_links:
  - label: Intro
    url: /dancexr
  - label: Features
    url: /dancexr/features
  - label: Releases
    url: /dancexr/releases
  - label: Download
    url: /dancexr/download
---

## Release 2026.3

### New Drag & Drop File Loading
You can now load model, motion and audio files by dragging and dropping them into the application window. This provides a more convenient way to load models without having to navigate through file dialogs or adding them to your content library.

The drag and drop loading system operates slightly differently than the pre-scanned content library items. 

**Model Files** 
When you drop additional model file into the application, it will be added to the scene if you are running the pro version. For free version users, you can only load one model at a time, so dropping a new model file will replace the existing model in the scene. The content library items will always replace by default unless you use the "+" button on the right (pro version only).

**Motion and Audio Files**
The content library items are organized as "dance sets", which means each item contains an audio and multiple motion files and they are loaded / unloaded altogether. 

When you drop a motion or audio file into the application, it will be added to a temperory dance set which allows you to freely mix and match motion and audio files without having to create a dance set item for each combination. 

If you have a dance set from the content library already loaded when you drop a new motion or audio file, the previous dance set will be unloaded and replaced by the empty new one. This is to avoid confusion between the content library items and the drag and drop files. You can always drop individual files from your existing library if you wish to mix them up.

Feel free to report issues and recommend further improvements for this new feature. We will continue to optimize the drag and drop loading system in future updates.


### Shader Optimization
We have created dedicated shader variants for simpler scenarios to improve performance when you are not using the advanced features like "Outfit" and "Sweat Effect". The actual performance improvement may vary depending on your system but you should see a noticeable increase in frame rate especially under high resolution output and in VR.


### VR Ease Of Use Improvements
After carefully examining the available approaches and vigorous testing, we have settled on the approach that we think is the best for ease of use at the moment.

* The app will initialize VR on start and fallback to desktop mode if no headset is detected. This avoids many issues down the line and is most compatible with different VR platforms. 
* You can now easily switch to desktop mode without putting the headset on. Simply click on the new "Exit VR" button and you should be in the desktop mode without fumbling with the menu in VR.
* Switch to VR from desktop is also easy with a single mouse click on the "VR" item under the scene menu.


### State of Foveated Rendering
After some digging and testing, we have found that the foveated rendering support in Unity on PC is pretty much broken. It requires DX12 and disabling post process and shadows to be enabled. Which kind of defeats the purpose even if you managed to get it working. Unfortunately Unity has no plan to fix it or expand its availability soon so not much can be done at the moment. 

On Quest standalone this is working as expected. 


### VMD2PNG
We've created a separate open source project called VMD2PNG that can encode VMD motion into a PNG image. The benefit being that smaller file size, easier to share and load, visualization of motion data and more. You can find the project on GitHub: https://github.com/alloystorm/vmd2png

The new version of DanceXR supports loading motion data from VMD2PNG files. You can do it by dragging and dropping the PNG file into the application or by keeping your motion png files in the content library like any other motion file.


### Other changes and improvements
* Fixed oscillation introduced by audio time smoothing when there's big fluctuation in frame rate.
* Better text rendering thoughout the app with improved font rendering and anti-aliasing.
* Updated translations for all supported languages. 
* DX12 is now the default graphics API on Windows since we found it to perform slightly better. If you don't have DX12 on your system it will fallback to DX11 automatically.

