---
layout: single
title: Release 2026.1
toc: true
locale: en-US
sidebar:
  nav: "releases"
---
[Eng](/dancexr/releases/2026.1) | [繁中](/tw/dancexr/releases/2026.1) | [日本語](/jp/dancexr/releases/2026.1) | [한국어](/kr/dancexr/releases/2026.1) | [简中](/zh/dancexr/releases/2026.1)

## Summary

## What's New

### Improved Texture Support and Skin Shader Features
We now have better support for alternative textures if the model includes them, and there are new settings in the skin shader to enhance wetness effect when a wet texture is present.
*   **Alternative Textures and Settings**: Selecting alternative textures now also updates texture menu with the current texutre used for the material.
*   **Wetness Effect**: When wet texture is availalbe, you can now turn on wet mode in skin shader for better wetness effect.
There are also updated settings for better control over skin texture appearance:
*   **Override Mask**: New option to override mask settings in Skin Shader.
*   **Detail Mask**: Added controls for detail masks, including flip options and gloss property adjustments.
*   **Occlusion**: Default occlusion effect is set to 0 for skin materials, addressing the darkening issue from previous versions. 
*   **Bump Effects**: Added "Bump Effect" for wetness texture for better wet effect.

### Physics Engine Updates
*   **Collision Optimization**: Refactored simulation jobs to optimize collision handling order.
*   **Joint Stability**: Improved twist angle calculation and impulse calculation in joints.
*   **Inertia**: Simplified inertia tensor calculations for better performance and stability.

## Improvements & Bug Fixes

*   Enhanced cleanup logic to prevent memory leaks or state issues.
*   Fixed an issue with sweat drop rendering.

