---
layout: single
title: リリース1.4.7 2023年8月
toc: true
locale: jp-JP
sidebar:
  nav: "releases-jp"
---

## UI Improvements
* Keypad input available for all numeric configuration values. You can now key in the values precisely. 
* Menu item filtering from alphabetic keypad input is available for menus with long list of child items. Like material list, morph list, saved scene selection etc.
* Improved scrolling experience. Verticle dragging on sliders will trigger scrolling instead of slider value changes.
* Improved menu items grouping visually. 
{% include video id="5qJ7SwcoZak" provider="youtube" %}


## Lighting & Sky
* Simplified light position & angle control
* Sunlight angle is now controlled by time of day, ecliptic angle and orientation.
* Automatic transition between day and night based on time of day value.
* Night sky with stars
{% include video id="D745FYNcx4c" provider="youtube" %}


## New Texture Enhancement Features
* Generate normal map based on specular map or color map information
* Making use of specular maps to affect certains properties of the materials
* Detail maps that adds fine details to the materials
{% include video id="uk7QGK3rOQk" provider="youtube" %}


## Motion Improvements
* Fixed BVH arm pose
* Further improvements to arm twist correction
* Improved looping & speed control. Allowing motion and music to play at different speed.
* Fixed tracking configurations for orbit camera


## XPS Physics
* Improved hair physics control, added spring force reduction rate to improve short hair simulation.
* Changes in skirt physics joints to allow a bit more flexibility to better simulate fabric behavior. 
